Wiki | [Home](../../README.md) | [Documentation](../documentation/documentation.md) | [Tutorials](../tutorials/tutorials.md) | [Qualifiers](../qualifiers/qualifier.md) | [Finals](../finals/finals.md)

-------------------------------------------------

# Wiki | Documentation

GEAR is the software used by teams participating in the Agile Robotics for Industrial Automation Competition (ARIAC) hosted by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).

- [Competition Specifications](competition_specifications.md): This page provides a high-level description of the components that constitute the competition (scenarios, environment, robot, sensors, etc).

- [YAML Configuration Files](configuration_files.md): This page shows you how to write a user configuration file (for sensor placements) and how to understand/write trial configuration files. 
  - **NOTE**: Even if you are an ARIAC expert, it is highly recommended to go through this page since the structure of trial configuration files has changed since ARIAC 2020.

- [Agility Challenges](agility_challenges.md): Here you will find a description of each agility challenge you may encounter during the qualifiers and the final round.

<!-- - [Product and Coordinate Frame Specifications](frame_specifications.md): This page outlines the specifications of the pose requirements specified in each Order. -->

- [System Requirements](system_requirements.md): The system requirements for GEAR.

- [ARIAC API](api.md): How competitors are to communicate with GEAR.

- [ARIAC Update Policy](update_policy.md)

- [GEAR Log Files](logging.md): Details of log files generated by GEAR and how to enable/replay simulation state logging.

- [Automated Evaluation Procedure](automated_evaluation.md): Details of how submissions for Qualifiers will be automatically evaluated.

- [Scoring Metrics](scoring.md): Details on scoring metrics.

-------------------------------------------------

Wiki | [Home](../../README.md) | [Documentation](../documentation/documentation.md) | [Tutorials](../tutorials/tutorials.md) | [Qualifiers](../qualifiers/qualifier.md) | [Finals](../finals/finals.md)